---
id: index
slug: /concepts
---

import tigrisConfig from "@site/tigris.config.js";

# Overview

As developers ourselves, we have always wanted just to be able to focus on
building applications and scale up those services and not spend time maintaining
infrastructure.

This is why we have built Tigris. Tigris is an open source developer data
platform that provides a cohesive, flexible set of data management services with
an API-like approach to interact with data just as apps interact with other
services such as Stripe. This allows you to build dynamic, data-driven
applications in an infrastructure-less way.

Tigris is licensed under the terms of the
[Apache License v2.0](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0) and is
available as a hosted platform through <a href={tigrisConfig.signupUrl}>Tigris
Cloud</a> enabling you to simplify your operational experience.

### Features

#### 🪗 Flexible Data Model

Flexibility of document databases and typed schema similar to relational
databases, enables consolidation of transaction, non-transactional, structured
and unstructured data use cases.

#### 🤖 Automatic Database Sharding

Dynamic sharding that can scale out the cluster based on load and storage
capacity, removing the need for manual database sharding.

#### 🏦 ACID Transactions

Global, Interactive, ACID transactions with strict serializability using
optimistic concurrency control.

#### 🔍 Full-text Search

Integrated database, search engine, and sync mechanism in a unified platform.
Provides rich query DSL, fuzzy search, custom ranking, fast faceting and geo
search.

#### 🗂 Global Secondary Indexes

Transactionally consistent secondary indexes that enable fast lookups by any
field.

#### 🏝 Database Branching

Instantly branch the database in the same way that you branch your code.

#### 💰 Fraction of the cost of DynamoDB and MongoDB Atlas

Scale to millions of records read and written and petabytes of data storage
while at 25% of the cost of DynamoDB and MongoDB Atlas Serverless.

#### ⚙️ Cloud-native Architecture

Disaggregated architecture - compute disaggregated from storage allowing for
independent scaling and cost-efficiency.

#### 💭 Multi Cloud Deployment Flexibility

Kubernetes-native platform design that allows it to be deployed to any cloud
provider, and to your own infrastructure whether on-prem or in the cloud.

#### 💚 Open Source

Truly open source, adhering to
[Apache License v2.0](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0). Continuously
built to improve performance, reliability and flexibility of the platform.
